# Bellabeat-Data-Analysis-Case-Study

Bellabeat is a wellness brand for women with a variety of products and services focused on women’s health. The company develops wearables and accompanying products that monitor biometric and lifestyle data to help women better understand how their bodies work and make healthier choices. Since it was founded in 2013, Bellabeat has grown rapidly and quickly positioned itself as a tech-driven wellness company for women. By 2016, Bellabeat had opened offices around the world and launched multiple products. Bellabeat products became available through a growing number of online retailers in addition to their own e-commerce channel on their website. The company has invested in traditional advertising media, such as radio, out-of-home billboards, print, and television, but focuses on digital marketing extensively.(https://bellabeat.com/)

### **Characters:**
* **Urška Sršen**: Bellabeat’s co-founder and Chief Creative Officer
* **Sando Mur**: Mathematician and Bellabeat’s cofounder; key member of the Bellabeat executive team
* **Bellabeat marketing analytics team**: A team of data analysts responsible for collecting, analyzing, and reporting data that helps guide Bellabeat’s marketing strategy. You joined this team six months ago and have been busy learning about Bellabeat’s mission and business goals — as well as how you, as a junior data analyst, can help Bellabeat achieve them.

### **Products:**
* **Bellabeat app**: The Bellabeat app provides users with health data related to their activity, sleep, stress, menstrual cycle, and mindfulness habits. This data can help users better understand their current habits and make healthy decisions. The Bellabeat app connects to their line of smart wellness products.
* **Leaf**: Bellabeat’s classic wellness tracker can be worn as a bracelet, necklace, or clip. The Leaf Tracker connects to the Bellabeat app to track activity, sleep, and stress.
* **Time**: This wellness watch combines the timeless look of a classic timepiece with smart technology to track user activity, sleep, and stress. The Time watch connects to the Bellabeat app to provide you with insights into your daily wellness.
* **Spring**: This is a water bottle that tracks daily water intake using smart technology to ensure that you are appropriately hydrated throughout the day. The Spring bottle connects to the Bellabeat app to track your hydration levels.
* **Bellabeat membership**: Bellabeat also offers a subscription-based membership program for users. Membership gives users 24/7 access to fully personalized guidance on nutrition, activity, sleep, health, beauty, and mindfulness based on their lifestyle and goals.

## **ASK**

### **Scenario**:
Urška Sršen, co-founder and Chief Creative Officer of Bellabeat believes that analyzing smart device fitness data could help unlock new growth opportunities for the company. As a Junior Data Analyst, I have been asked to focus on one of Bellabeat’s products and analyze smart device data to gain insight into how consumers are using their smart devices. 

### **There are three main questions that need to be answered**:
1. What are some trends in smart device usage? 
2. How could these trends apply to Bellabeat customers? 
3. How could these trends help influence Bellabeat's marketing strategy?

### **Business task**
Perform data analysis on non-Beallabeat's products to discover consumer usage trends and provide founded insights and high-level recommendations to Bellabeat’s stakeholders Urška Sršen CCO and Sando Mur: Mathematician and Bellabeat’s cofounder.

## **PREPARE**

### **About the data**

The data source used in this analysis is a Kaggle data set. The crowd-sourced Fitbit dataset, dated 03.12.2016-05.12.2016, is in the form of 18 CSV files that were generated by respondents to a distributed survey via Amazon Mechanical Turk. It was placed in Zenodo, where it got a DOI and had a license of CC0: Public Domain.

The Digital Object Identifier DOI of this data is 10.5281/zenodo.53894. It was posted on Zenodo by Furberg, Robert; Brinton, Julia; Keating, Michael; Ortiz, Alexa. The data was collected through a survey so there are limitations on verifying its integrity, however, the data was used and uploaded in Zenodo, which is a safe and credible website operated by CERN and OpenAIRE to ensure that everyone can join in Open Science.

There are some issues with bias or credibility in this data. Data could be biased since there is no information about consumers who submitted the responses, we are not aware of their gender, age, and so on. The data is not from Bellabeat's product and the usage of FitBit could slightly differ from BellaBeat's products. Ideally, to make data-driven decisions and have data analysis for BellaBeat, we would have the data from the BellaBeat product.

### **Evaluation of ROCCC**

* **Reliable** - Data is not necessarily very reliable since it’s not Bellabeat’s data and it’s only 30 consumers' data.
* **Original** - The data is not original and was produced by a third party - Amazon Mechanical Turk.
* **Comprehensive** - The data is somewhat comprehensive since it has 18 datasets, that include calories, steps, sleep and so on which are relevant to our analysis.
* **Current** - The data is from 2016 so it’s not super current. At the time of the analysis, it’s 7 years old, which could mean that usage and trends during this time have changed.
* **Cited** – The data on Kaggle has been used many times by various analysts, in Zenodo, where it got the DOI, it was cited 3 times.

## **PROCESS**

### **Tools for the process**

To clean, manipulate, and analyze the data I have chosen **R programming language**. I will ensure data integrity by not making any changes to the actual data, but rather creating new data frames and manipulating data that way. Also, I will be keeping notes of all changes made and actions taken regarding this data.

### **Start of data processing**

I have uploaded the dataset to **RStudio**. Once all 18 CSV files have been uploaded, I have installed and uploaded tidyverse package and set the working directory.

```
# installing and uploading tidyverse
install.packages("tidyverse")
library(tidyverse)
# setting working directory
setwd("/cloud/project/Fitabase Data 4.12.16-5.12.16")
```
